===================
Social Media Logins
===================

NoDonuts allows users to either create a NoDonuts-only account or to log in
using social media. Currently the project supports the following log-ins:

* Facebook
* Google OpenId
* Twitter
* Yahoo OpenId

This section explains how to configure each of the four types of social media
log-ins.

Configuring A Dev Environment For Social Auth
=============================================

Facebook and Twitter both require that you configure the urls that are allowed
to log in from your app. If you are on a development environment and do not
have an externally-facing server available, you can still configure social
media to work with your local environment.

In order to do this, you need to edit your ``/etc/hosts`` file (or
``%windir%\system32\drivers\etc\hosts`` if on Windows) to have a fake domain
name point to localhost:

.. image:: /_static/img/etc_hosts.png

In this case, we're using ``local.mydonuts.net``. You should then be able to
visit your locally-running instance using
`http://local.mynodonuts.net:8000 <http://local.mynodonuts.net:8000>`_.

.. image:: /_static/img/faked_url.png

Be sure to remember the fake url that you configured and use it in future steps
where url configuration is required. When you try to log in using Facebook or
Twitter, they will treat the faked url the same way they would a normal
external url.


Google and Yahoo
================

Google and Yahoo work with an out-of-the box installation of NoDonuts and do
not require any further configuration.


Facebook
========

By default, Facebook is disabled and will not show up as an option for users
trying to log in. In order to use Facebook for authentication, you need to
obtain an authorization key and secret using a developer account.

.. note::

Developer accounts on Facebook require a user account that has a confirmed
unique mobile telephone number. You cannot confirm a Facebook account using a
land line, a VOIP account, or a mobile phone that is associated with another
user.

.. _Facebook App creation page: http://developers.facebook.com/setup/

Getting a Developer Account
***************************

To create a developer account, go to the `Facebook App creation page`_. Click
'Register Now' and if  you haven't confirmed your phone it will ask you to do
so at this time.

Creating a New Facebook App
***************************

From the `Facebook App creation page`_, click the 'Create New App' button.  You
should see a form that looks something like this:

.. image:: /_static/img/facebook_create_app.png

Fill out the form using your own values and click 'Create App'.

At the top of your Dashboard page you should see the name and icon for your
app, along with two fields, ``App ID`` and ``App Secret``.

.. image:: /_static/img/facebook_dashboard.png

Copy those two values into your ``srv_settings.py`` file:

::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_FACEBOOK_KEY = '...your App ID...'
    SOCIAL_AUTH_FACEBOOK_SECRET = '...your App Secret..'

Go to the 'Settings' panel and edit the 'Basics' tab.  Enter your email address
in the ``Contact Email`` field (this is required to be able to use Facebook to
log in). Click 'Add Platform', choose 'Website', and configure the url where
your NoDonuts app will be hosted (use the faked url from above if you're in a
local dev environment).  Don't forget to save.

.. image:: /_static/img/facebook_basic_settings.png

Go to the 'Advanced' tab and look for the 'Security' section. Make sure
'Client OAuth Login' is set to 'Yes' and add the url of your server (or the
faked url) to the 'Valid OAuth redirect URIs' field. Save your settings.

.. image:: /_static/img/facebook_advanced_settings.png

Finally, go to the 'Status & Review' tab and make your app public:

.. image:: /_static/img/facebook_make_public.png

Verify that you are able to log in from your NoDonuts app. You should also go
back and fill in the privacy policy and terms of service urls on the 'App
Details' page as per the Facebook developer terms, but you do not need this in
order to run the app in development.


Twitter
=======

By default, Twitter login is desabled and will not show up as an option for
users trying to log in. In order to use Twitter to login from NoDonuts, you
must have a Twitter account with a verified email address.

Visit the `Twitter app creation page <https://apps.twitter.com/app/new>`_ and
fill out the details for your app.

.. image:: /_static/img/twitter_create_app.png

Make sure that you enter a 'Callback URL' (this would be your fake url if doing
development), even though the field is optional. It's required for
authentication.

.. note::

    Please read the developer agreement for Twitter carefully. It has several
    mandates related to your privacy policy and your terms of service that you
    must comply with. You should update the privacy and terms statements to
    fit their minimum requirements.

Once you create your app, go to the 'Settings' tab and check 'Allow this
application to be used to sign in with Twitter' and save your settings.

..image:: /_static/img/twitter_settings.png

.. note::

    The settings form doesn't always save your changes right away (or sometimes
    undoes changes). Before you leave the page, make sure that the checkmark is
    checked after you hit save and the Callback URL is still filled in. Refresh
    the page a few times to make sure the changes have actually taken effect.

Go to the 'API Keys' tab and look for 'API key' and 'API secret' at the top of
the page. Update your ``srv_settings.py`` file as follows:

::

    SOCIAL_AUTH_TWITTER_KEY = '...your API key...'
    SOCIAL_AUTH_TWITTER_SECRET = '...your API secret...'

Test that you are able to log using Twitter in from your NoDonuts instance.

.. note::

    You may receive 401 errors if the clock is set incorrectly on your server
    or local machine. Make sure your clock is correct, and consider
    synchronizing it with an external NTP server.

